---
layout: post
title: "Documenting Python Code"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}
[1]: http://docs.python.org/devguide/documenting.html
[2]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html
[3]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/
[4]: http://sphinx-doc.org/
[5]: http://pythonhosted.org/an_example_pypi_project/sphinx.html
[6]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html
[7]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/cheatsheet.txt
[8]: http://sphinx-doc.org/rest.html#rst-primer
[9]: http://sphinx-doc.org/latest/ext/math.html

## Python Style Documentation

The markup used for the Python documentation is [reStructuredText][2], developed
by the [docutils][3] project, amended by custom directives and using a toolset
named [Sphinx][5] to post-process the HTML output.


## reStructuredText (reST)
reStructuredText is the markup language in which Python documentation is
written. It is extremely easy to learn. Here are some helpful resources:

 1. [Explanation of documenting a Python project][5]
 1. [Sphinx's reStructreText Primer][8]
 1. [The reStructuredText website][2]
 1. [A reStructuredText Quickstart Guide][6]
 1. [A reStructuredText Cheatsheet][7]

The syntax is one issue. Another is the style in which the syntax should be
used. For that, see here: [Python Developer's Styleguide][1].

## Sphinx
Sphinx is a tool that makes it easy to create intelligent and beautiful
documentation. It is a set of directives which provide for the following
features:

 1. __Output formats__: HTML, LaTeX, Texinfo, manual pages, plain text
 1. __Extensive cross-references__: semantic markup and automatic links for
    functions, classes, citations, glossary terms and similar pieces of information
 1. __Hierarchical structure__: easy definition of a document tree, with
    automatic links to siblings, parents and children
 1. __Automatic indices__: general index as well as a language-specific module
    indices
 1. __Code handling__: automatic highlighting using the Pygments highlighter
 1. __Extensions__: automatic testing of code snippets, inclusion of docstrings
    from Python modules (API docs), and more

Essentially, Sphinx is used to organize the documentation, which is written in
reST. 

### Root Directory & Configuration
The root directory of a documentation project, `doc/source`, is called the
source directory and is where the Sphinx configuration file `conf.py` is found.
The Sphinx quickstart command will help you create this.

`$ sphinx-quickstart`


### Using Sphinx to build Documentation
There are two methods used to build the docs. The first is to perform it
manually using `sphinx-build`.

`$ sphinx-build -b html sourcedir builddir`

The second method is to use the `Makefile` generated by the `sphinx-quickstart`.
With this, you only need to run

`$ make html`

to build html docs in the build directory you defined. Executing `make` without
arguments will display the available targets. For another example, to make pdf
documentation

`$ make latexpdf`

will run the latex builder and invokes the pdfTex toolchain. 

### Sphinx Math Support
As always, it is important for us engineers that the tools we use supports
mathematical notation. If Sphinx didn't have this support, we wouldn't be using
it! During the `sphinx-quickstart` setup, pngmath and jsmath are both
options. 

Inline math example: 

Since Pythagoras, we know that :math:`a^2 + b^2 = c^2`.

Multiple line math:

  .. math::

       (a + b)^2 = a^2 + 2ab + b^2

       (a - b)^2 = a^2 - 2ab + b^2

Please go see the [Sphinx Math Documentation][9] page. 




